*******************************
3D Reconstruction and Rendering
*******************************

Once you have selected the photos you want in your next reconstruction (state *New* and *Processed*), you can launch the 3D reconstruction by :

- Clicking on *Tools* and then *Launch 3D reconstruction*

For the moment, the reconstruction will freeze the application and you might have to select a pair of photos in the terminal at a certain point of the reconstruction to feed openMVG.
The application will then display the final point cloud result.

..What we would have wanted and what is perfectly possible is :

..- To launch the reconstruction in another thread to not block the application. The code is actually somewhere on one of our github repository but hasn't been included in
..our latest version. 
..- Since openMVG is doing an incremental reconstruction, it creates new point cloud until it is done. So we would have like to visualize those new point clouds when they are 
..created. We are now (again, in one of our repository) able to detect and copy those new point clouds, but not to display them.  
..- To navigate in the 3D rendering with the keyboard. The C++ plugin actually has functions to, for exemple, change the current camera from where you see the point cloud, but 
..we haven't implemented it in the view code. 
..- To be able to identify cameras inside the point cloud so that we could link cameras in the point cloud with pictures : a click on a picture in the list previously described would 
change the current used camera in the rendering. 
